docs/getting_started.rst, before:

.. _getting_started:

Getting started
===============

Requirements
------------

* Python (3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10)
* Django (2.2, 3.1, 3.2, 4.0)
* Django REST Framework (3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13)

These are the officially supported python and package versions.  Other versions
will probably work.  You're free to modify the tox config and see what is
possible.

Installation
------------

Simple JWT can be installed with pip::

  pip install djangorestframework-simplejwt

Then, your django project must be configured to use the library.  In
``settings.py``, add
``rest_framework_simplejwt.authentication.JWTAuthentication`` to the list of
authentication classes:

.. code-block:: python

  REST_FRAMEWORK = {
      ...
      'DEFAULT_AUTHENTICATION_CLASSES': (
          ...
          'rest_framework_simplejwt.authentication.JWTAuthentication',
      )
      ...
  }

Also, in your root ``urls.py`` file (or any other url config), include routes
for Simple JWT's ``TokenObtainPairView`` and ``TokenRefreshView`` views:

.. code-block:: python

  from rest_framework_simplejwt.views import (
      TokenObtainPairView,
      TokenRefreshView,
  )

  urlpatterns = [
      ...
      path('api/token/', TokenObtainPairView.as_view(), name='token_obtain_pair'),
      path('api/token/refresh/', TokenRefreshView.as_view(), name='token_refresh'),
      ...
  ]

You can also include a route for Simple JWT's ``TokenVerifyView`` if you wish to
allow API users to verify HMAC-signed tokens without having access to your
signing key:

.. code-block:: python
  
  from rest_framework_simplejwt.views import TokenVerifyView
  
  urlpatterns = [
      ...
      path('api/token/verify/', TokenVerifyView.as_view(), name='token_verify'),
      ...
  ]

If you wish to use localizations/translations, simply add 
``rest_framework_simplejwt`` to ``INSTALLED_APPS``.

.. code-block:: python

  INSTALLED_APPS = [
      ...
      'rest_framework_simplejwt',
      ...
  ]


Usage
-----

To verify that Simple JWT is working, you can use curl to issue a couple of
test requests:

.. code-block:: bash

  curl \
    -X POST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"username": "davidattenborough", "password": "boatymcboatface"}' \
    http://localhost:8000/api/token/

  ...
  {
    "access":"eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VyX3BrIjoxLCJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoiYWNjZXNzIiwiY29sZF9zdHVmZiI6IuKYgyIsImV4cCI6MTIzNDU2LCJqdGkiOiJmZDJmOWQ1ZTFhN2M0MmU4OTQ5MzVlMzYyYmNhOGJjYSJ9.NHlztMGER7UADHZJlxNG0WSi22a2KaYSfd1S-AuT7lU",
    "refresh":"eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VyX3BrIjoxLCJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoicmVmcmVzaCIsImNvbGRfc3R1ZmYiOiLimIMiLCJleHAiOjIzNDU2NywianRpIjoiZGUxMmY0ZTY3MDY4NDI3ODg5ZjE1YWMyNzcwZGEwNTEifQ.aEoAYkSJjoWH1boshQAaTkf8G3yn0kapko6HFRt7Rh4"
  }

You can use the returned access token to prove authentication for a protected
view:

.. code-block:: bash

  curl \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VyX3BrIjoxLCJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoiYWNjZXNzIiwiY29sZF9zdHVmZiI6IuKYgyIsImV4cCI6MTIzNDU2LCJqdGkiOiJmZDJmOWQ1ZTFhN2M0MmU4OTQ5MzVlMzYyYmNhOGJjYSJ9.NHlztMGER7UADHZJlxNG0WSi22a2KaYSfd1S-AuT7lU" \
    http://localhost:8000/api/some-protected-view/

When this short-lived access token expires, you can use the longer-lived
refresh token to obtain another access token:

.. code-block:: bash

  curl \
    -X POST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"refresh":"eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VyX3BrIjoxLCJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoicmVmcmVzaCIsImNvbGRfc3R1ZmYiOiLimIMiLCJleHAiOjIzNDU2NywianRpIjoiZGUxMmY0ZTY3MDY4NDI3ODg5ZjE1YWMyNzcwZGEwNTEifQ.aEoAYkSJjoWH1boshQAaTkf8G3yn0kapko6HFRt7Rh4"}' \
    http://localhost:8000/api/token/refresh/

  ...
  {"access":"eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VyX3BrIjoxLCJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoiYWNjZXNzIiwiY29sZF9zdHVmZiI6IuKYgyIsImV4cCI6MTIzNTY3LCJqdGkiOiJjNzE4ZTVkNjgzZWQ0NTQyYTU0NWJkM2VmMGI0ZGQ0ZSJ9.ekxRxgb9OKmHkfy-zs1Ro_xs1eMLXiR17dIDBVxeT-w"}

Commit message:

Fixed issue #543 (#586)
* Allow optional installation of the 'cryptography' package (#543)

* Update docs (#543)

* Update docs (#543)

* Update docs/getting_started.rst

Co-authored-by: Andrew Chen Wang <60190294+Andrew-Chen-Wang@users.noreply.github.com>

* fix for code-block (#543)

* another fix for code-block (#543)

* fix: removed extra line (#543)

Co-authored-by: Andrew Chen Wang <60190294+Andrew-Chen-Wang@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/getting_started.rst, after:

.. _getting_started:

Getting started
===============

Requirements
------------

* Python (3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10)
* Django (2.2, 3.1, 3.2, 4.0)
* Django REST Framework (3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13)

These are the officially supported python and package versions.  Other versions
will probably work.  You're free to modify the tox config and see what is
possible.

Installation
------------

Simple JWT can be installed with pip:

.. code-block:: console

  pip install djangorestframework-simplejwt


Cryptographic Dependencies (Optional)
-------------------------------------

If you are planning on encoding or decoding tokens using certain digital
signature algorithms (i.e. RSA and ECDSA; visit PyJWT for other algorithms), you will need to install the
cryptography_ library. This can be installed explicitly, or as a required
extra in the ``djangorestframework-simplejwt`` requirement:

.. code-block:: console

  pip install djangorestframework-simplejwt[crypto]

The ``djangorestframework-simplejwt[crypto]`` format is recommended in requirements
files in projects using ``Simple JWT``, as a separate ``cryptography`` requirement
line may later be mistaken for an unused requirement and removed.

.. _`cryptography`: https://cryptography.io

Project Configuration
---------------------

Then, your django project must be configured to use the library.  In
``settings.py``, add
``rest_framework_simplejwt.authentication.JWTAuthentication`` to the list of
authentication classes:

.. code-block:: python

  REST_FRAMEWORK = {
      ...
      'DEFAULT_AUTHENTICATION_CLASSES': (
          ...
          'rest_framework_simplejwt.authentication.JWTAuthentication',
      )
      ...
  }

Also, in your root ``urls.py`` file (or any other url config), include routes
for Simple JWT's ``TokenObtainPairView`` and ``TokenRefreshView`` views:

.. code-block:: python

  from rest_framework_simplejwt.views import (
      TokenObtainPairView,
      TokenRefreshView,
  )

  urlpatterns = [
      ...
      path('api/token/', TokenObtainPairView.as_view(), name='token_obtain_pair'),
      path('api/token/refresh/', TokenRefreshView.as_view(), name='token_refresh'),
      ...
  ]

You can also include a route for Simple JWT's ``TokenVerifyView`` if you wish to
allow API users to verify HMAC-signed tokens without having access to your
signing key:

.. code-block:: python

  from rest_framework_simplejwt.views import TokenVerifyView

  urlpatterns = [
      ...
      path('api/token/verify/', TokenVerifyView.as_view(), name='token_verify'),
      ...
  ]

If you wish to use localizations/translations, simply add
``rest_framework_simplejwt`` to ``INSTALLED_APPS``.

.. code-block:: python

  INSTALLED_APPS = [
      ...
      'rest_framework_simplejwt',
      ...
  ]


Usage
-----

To verify that Simple JWT is working, you can use curl to issue a couple of
test requests:

.. code-block:: bash

  curl \
    -X POST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"username": "davidattenborough", "password": "boatymcboatface"}' \
    http://localhost:8000/api/token/

  ...
  {
    "access":"eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VyX3BrIjoxLCJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoiYWNjZXNzIiwiY29sZF9zdHVmZiI6IuKYgyIsImV4cCI6MTIzNDU2LCJqdGkiOiJmZDJmOWQ1ZTFhN2M0MmU4OTQ5MzVlMzYyYmNhOGJjYSJ9.NHlztMGER7UADHZJlxNG0WSi22a2KaYSfd1S-AuT7lU",
    "refresh":"eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VyX3BrIjoxLCJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoicmVmcmVzaCIsImNvbGRfc3R1ZmYiOiLimIMiLCJleHAiOjIzNDU2NywianRpIjoiZGUxMmY0ZTY3MDY4NDI3ODg5ZjE1YWMyNzcwZGEwNTEifQ.aEoAYkSJjoWH1boshQAaTkf8G3yn0kapko6HFRt7Rh4"
  }

You can use the returned access token to prove authentication for a protected
view:

.. code-block:: bash

  curl \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VyX3BrIjoxLCJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoiYWNjZXNzIiwiY29sZF9zdHVmZiI6IuKYgyIsImV4cCI6MTIzNDU2LCJqdGkiOiJmZDJmOWQ1ZTFhN2M0MmU4OTQ5MzVlMzYyYmNhOGJjYSJ9.NHlztMGER7UADHZJlxNG0WSi22a2KaYSfd1S-AuT7lU" \
    http://localhost:8000/api/some-protected-view/

When this short-lived access token expires, you can use the longer-lived
refresh token to obtain another access token:

.. code-block:: bash

  curl \
    -X POST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"refresh":"eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VyX3BrIjoxLCJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoicmVmcmVzaCIsImNvbGRfc3R1ZmYiOiLimIMiLCJleHAiOjIzNDU2NywianRpIjoiZGUxMmY0ZTY3MDY4NDI3ODg5ZjE1YWMyNzcwZGEwNTEifQ.aEoAYkSJjoWH1boshQAaTkf8G3yn0kapko6HFRt7Rh4"}' \
    http://localhost:8000/api/token/refresh/

  ...
  {"access":"eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VyX3BrIjoxLCJ0b2tlbl90eXBlIjoiYWNjZXNzIiwiY29sZF9zdHVmZiI6IuKYgyIsImV4cCI6MTIzNTY3LCJqdGkiOiJjNzE4ZTVkNjgzZWQ0NTQyYTU0NWJkM2VmMGI0ZGQ0ZSJ9.ekxRxgb9OKmHkfy-zs1Ro_xs1eMLXiR17dIDBVxeT-w"}
